With some board members still skeptical about authorizing smartphone apps to hail yellow cabs, the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission’s chairman said Wednesday that the panel was instead likely to consider a pilot program to allow the products for a trial period.

The commission had been expected to vote Thursday on a proposal permitting New Yorkers to request a yellow taxi ride on their smartphones and allowing drivers to receive requests and confirm pickup locations, negating the need for passengers to raise arms toward oncoming traffic.

David S. Yassky, the commission chairman, said it was now probable that a vote would be held instead on a pilot program with similar features.

“Bringing apps into New York would be a change in the way people get taxis,” Mr. Yassky said in an interview. “It makes sense to see how that pans out and see if any of the supposed problems with that materialize before you make it permanent.”

He said the commission had also discussed limiting an app’s geographic reach, possibly restricting New Yorkers to hail taxis that are only a short distance away. Officials have reasoned that this provision would temper the number of empty taxis that bypass would-be passengers on their way to an electronically arranged pickup.

In recent days, amid complaints from the for-hire vehicle industry that smartphone apps would jeopardize their business, it became clear that some commissioners, and perhaps a majority, were prepared to vote down any permanent rule change.

“You can’t just pull the rug out from them and say: ‘Guess what? We’re changing the structure,’ ” said Nora C. Marino, one of the nine board members.

Opponents of the apps have also contended that they violate the industry’s long-standing ban on prearranged rides in yellow taxis. One commissioner, Frank V. Carone, said he still believed that the apps constituted prearrangement, but he now supported a pilot program after initially opposing the rule change.

The tussle over smartphone apps has highlighted tensions facing a city that often trumpets its tech-friendliness but has been criticized by app developers and users for not moving quickly enough to support such services.

In a blog post written after his company ended its brief foray into the New York yellow taxi market in October, Travis Kalanick, the chief executive of Uber, urged customers to try his product “in more innovation-friendly cities” like Boston and Toronto.

In a statement on Wednesday, Mr. Kalanick said that he was “encouraged” that the city was “responding quickly to make the system work better” for drivers, riders and the city’s economy.

Mr. Yassky appeared to weigh concerns about the city’s image in e-mails to city officials during the summer, noting that allowing electronic hailing was “the policy choice most consistent with N.Y.C.’s image as a ‘tech-forward’ place to do business.”

But resistance remains significant in some corners of the industry, particularly among for-hire vehicle operators who have long thrived on prearranged rides. The adoption of a pilot program is unlikely to assuage their concerns. Several members of the City Council have also written letters to the commission, expressing fears that the apps may lead to an increase in distracted driving or leave those without smartphones at a disadvantage.

Avik Kabessa, the chief executive of Carmel Car and Limousine Service and a member of the Livery Roundtable, a group representing livery drivers and base owners, said the discussion of a pilot program suggested weak support for apps among the commission’s board. “If they had the votes, there wouldn’t be a pilot,” he said. “A pilot that bypasses a bad rule is a bad pilot.”

Perhaps, he suggested, the commission should also test a program that allows livery cars to perform hails like yellow taxis all over the city.
